---
wpId: 856
title: "Disclaimer"
slug: "disclaimer"
description: "You acknowledge and agree that if you decide to browse or utilize the services provided by this Site, you do it entirely at your own risk. ISOC HK, and its offi"
lang: en
---

1. You acknowledge and agree that if you decide to browse or utilize the services provided by this Site, you do it entirely at your own risk. ISOC HK, and its officers, directors, agents and employees shall not be liable to you for any loss or damages, claims, demands or causes of actions, direct or indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive, arising from your use of this Site or any information you obtain on it or any other interaction with ISOC HK. You agree that you are waiving voluntarily and unequivocally any liability of ISOC HK.
  2. The information and content provided by this Site, the application of these provisions, disclosures and disclaimers and all other matters arising from your use of this Site or of any information you obtain from ISOC HK shall be governed by the laws of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR). Any claims, disputes or other controversies relating to or arising from these provisions, disclosures and disclaimers or from your use of this Site or any information you receive from ISOC HK shall be brought exclusively in the Court of HKSAR and you hereby expressly consent to the exercise of jurisdiction over you by such courts.
  3. ISOC HK strives to provide and maintain the accuracy and the completeness of the contents of this Site. It, however, do not assume responsibility for implied warranties of merchantability, completeness, timeliness, correctness, non-infringement, or fitness for any particular use, application or purpose, or that information or files on this Site are free of malware or other codes that include or manifest contaminating or destructive characteristics. Neither ISOC HK, nor any of its officers, directors, agents, or employees shall be held liable for loss and damage in this regard.
  4. Except for the contents that have been expressly stated to be produced by ISOC HK, any other contents, including but not limited to the hyperlinks contained in this Site are not within ISOC HK’s scope of liability, and therefore ISOC HK is not liable to loss and damages arising from or in connection with accidents (such as infection by malware), defamation, infringement of copyrights or intellectual property rights. For the avoidance of doubts, any material downloaded or otherwise obtained through the use of the services provided by ISOC HK is done at your own risk and discretion and that you will be solely responsible for any damage to your computer system or damage or loss of data resulting from the download of any information.
  5. You expressly acknowledge and agree that ISOC HK shall not be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, consequential or exemplary or punitive damages, including but not limited to, damages for loss or profits, goodwill, use, data or other intangible losses (notwithstanding ISOC HK may have been informed of such possibility) , resulting from (1) the use or inability to use the service of ISOC HK; (2) data, information, services or messages received or purchased directly from or via ISOC HK, or the replacement cost of services derived from such dealings; (3) unauthorized access to or alteration of your transmissions or data; (4) statements or conduct of any third party as a result of service provided by ISOC HK or (4) any other matter relating to the service of ISOC HK
  6. ISOC HK may amend, vary or add to the terms of services or terminate the services at any time without prior notice.

You hereby acknowledge that the provisions, disclosures and disclaimers set forth above are fair and reasonable, and that your agreement to follow and be bound by them is not the result of fraud, duress or undue influence exercised upon you by any person or entity. ISOC HK makes no representations, promises, warranties or undertakings contrary to those set forth above.